# Deep-Restricted-Boltzmann-Machines

## Introduction 

In this project we train a class of unsupervised learning algorithms called deep Restricted Boltzmann Machines (RBMs) to learn the physics of the 2D Ising model. 

## Motivation 

Deep Learning has the potential to greatly enhance our understanding of critical phenomena in statistical physics. There is a mathematical connection between 
RBMs and the Renormalization Group from statistical mechanics. This project develops deep RBMs whose architecture is designed so as to implement a Renormalization 
Group transformation through the layers of the deep RBM. Since deep RBMs can be put in generative mode, we can then reverse the Renormalization Group flow and 
generate new configurations. The statistical physics system that we study is the 2D Ising model. The deep RBMs that we build have the potential to speed up the
generation of Ising configurations relative to traditional MCMC methods. Furthermore, the critical behaviour of the system can be extracted from the trained RBM. 

## Installation 

To use this project, first clone the repo on your device using the command below:

```git init``` 

```git clone https://github.com/bmartin9/Deep-Restricted-Boltzmann-Machines.git``` 

## Usage 

Let's give an overview of how the different parts of this project fit together. 

* Monte_Carlo.py runs a metropolis Marov Chain Monte Carlo simulation of the microstates of the 2D Ising model and outputs a csv file of the accepted microstates.

* RBMClass.py is a general class for RBMs with a single hidden layer. It allows full flexibility to define the architecture of your RBM and specify the trainable parameters. 

* DBMClass.py is a general class for deep RBMs (multiple hidden layers). It also allows full flexibility to define the architecture of your RBM and specify the trainable parameters. 

* shallowfull.py trains a fully connected RBM with a single hidden layer. It then samples from the trained model to generate dreamed microstates. The thermodynamics of the dreamed microstates are computed
and plotted. 

* Thermo_Functions.py contains useful functions to calculate thermodynamic quantities. 

* Example_experiment trains a deep RBM with a specific holographic architecture, samples from the trained model, 
and the calculates the couplings between the dreamed microstates. 
  * experiment3_210.py trains a deep RBM with a Holographic architecture on Ising configurations that were generated at a temperature of 2.1. 
  To run this file you need to generate a csv file with Ising microstates; this is currently called "L32_100KIsing_data_210.csv", but this can of course be changed. 
  This file outputs csv files for the weights and biases of each layer separately.
  
  * experiment3_generator.py reads in the trained weights and biases that were generated by running experiment3_210.py. It then initialises a deep holographic RBM
  with these parameters, samples from the model and outputs a csv files of the dreamed units (both visible units and hidden units).
  
  * experiment3_coupling.py reads in a csv file of units and uses the Newton-Raphson method to calculate the couplings between the given units. It outputs 
  the coupling estimate and error on the Newton-Raphson method (not the same as the error of the coupling estimate!)
  


